
tesla has been electrifying the global automotive scene quite literally. founded in 2003, the brand’s claim to fame was the lotus elise-based tesla roadster, which was launched in 2008. the 2-door electric sports car offered a range of nearly 400km and a 0-100kmph time of under 4 seconds. with over 2,400 sales to its name, the roadster got the ball rolling for tesla. since 2012, the carmaker has expanded its range to include the model s family sedan and the model x crossover, with the model 3 sedan slated to join the family soon. tesla’s vehicles are produced at its factory in fremont, california, which is capable of producing 2,000 cars a week. the brand is expected to make its entry into the indian market in 2018, with the first product launch being the model 3 sedan – a likely rival to the likes of the bmw 3 series, mercedes-benz c-class, audi a4 and jaguar xf.

rs. 55.00 lakh onwards
exp. launch: december 2019
rs. 50.00 lakh onwards
exp. launch: january 2020
rs. 35.00 lakh onwards
exp. launch: august 2020
rs. 48.00 lakh onwards
exp. launch: december 2019
the upcoming tesla model x suv is speculated to arrive in india in late 2018 with an estimated price of rs 50-55 lakh. this full-fledged seven-seater electric suv is available in the global market wit
the upcoming tesla model x suv is speculated to arrive in india in late 2018 with an estimated price of rs 50-55 lakh. this full-fledged seven-seater electric suv is available in the global market with an impressive range of 475 km in a single charge and features all-wheel-drive system. the model x boasts cutting-edge design which is further highlighted by its falcon wing doors and daytime running lamps features. the model x’s interiors for the indian market may be offered with advanced comfort, infotainment and connectivity features and tesla promises to offer ample cargo space as well. the model x will come with either 75 kwh or 100 kwh lithium-ion batteries and accordingly, the output may range between 260-500 bhp. the safety features on model x might include hepa air filter, airbags, anti-lock braking system with electronic brake force distribution, rear parking camera with sensors, automatic door locks, engine immobilizer etc. in the real world, the model x won’t be as imposing on the move as any of the similarly sized suvs. that said, none of those imposing behemoths will floor you with the comfort of zero emissions, considerably lower running costs and the availability of fully autonomous driving capability.
...read more
while the model y is likely to be an affordable crossover, the pickup, as elon musk quoted in a tweet, will have a “game changing feature”

tesla’s resident twitterati, elon musk, who is also the ceo of the electric carmaker, is renowned for, every now and then, revealing where the company is heading in terms of expanding its product portfolio. in his latest tweet wherein he had asked for suggestions from tesla fans on “how can we improve further?”, he received a reply on how an all-electric pickup would do wonders for the company. musk...read more »
this is real
the semi is capable of completing the 0-100kmph run in a mere 5 seconds, and offers a range of 643km on a 30-minute charge
please enter the 4 digit code sent to your mobile number. edit 

update
please enter your mobile number.we will alert you when  is launchedwe will alert you when  is launchedshare via emailyour email has been sent!choose your city

 thank you! your question has been submitted 
you will receive all the communications on : be the first to know about latest offers on tesla car in your city. click allow